Java Full Stack 

1. What is Programming Language?
->A programming language is a formal language used to write instructions that a computer can understand and execute to perform tasks.

2. What is Assembler?
->An assembler is a system program that converts assembly language code into machine language.

3. What is MicroProcessor?
->A microprocessor is the central processing unit (CPU) on a single chip that performs arithmetic, logic, and control operations of a computer.

4. What is Compiler?
A compiler is a software that translates an entire high-level programming language program into machine code before execution.

Evolution of Language:
a.fortrain - 1957
b.cobol    - 1959
c.BCPL     - 1962
4.B        - 1969
5.C        - 1972
6.C++      -1982
7.oak/Java - 1995

Memory Devices 
HDD - Hard Disk Drive
RAM - Random Access Memory

Flow of c program
.c -> c compiler -> .obj  -> linking loader -> .exe -> microprocessor -> output

Debugging in c
.c -> interpreter -> obj line -> linking loader -> .exe -> microprocessor -> output
                                                               ^
                                                               |
                                                               operating system

Compiler vs Interpreter
Compiler: Translates the entire program into machine code at once before execution.
Interpreter: Translates and executes the program line by line at runtime.


5. Why c and c++ is platform dependent?
-> C and C++ are considered platform dependent because they are compiled into machine code specific to the operating system and hardware architecture.
Once compiled, the generated executable works only on that particular platform (e.g., Windows, Linux, x86, ARM) unless recompiled for another platform.


6. why is java platform independent?
                                                           RAM       //checks if jvm is installed in the system or not.
                                                            |
.hll -> javac -> .Ill -> JIT -> .Mll -> linking loader -> .exe -> microprocessor -> output

                  ------------------------------JDK-------------------------------
                  |    ---------JRE-------------------------------------         |
                  |   |   byte code verifier           java libraries  |         |
                  |   |                                                |         |
                  |   |            class loader                        |         |
                  |   |                                                |         |
                  |   |--------------------JVM-------------------------| JAVAC   |
                  |   |                                                |         |
                  |   |      JIT                     RUNTIME SYSTEM    |         |
                  |   |                                                |         |
                  |   |           Java Interpreter                     |         |
                  |   --------------------------------------------------         |
                  |                                                              |
                  |--------------------------------------------------------------|   
                      
 Principle of Object Orientation
 
 Object Orientation is the prospective of looking at the real world as a collection of object.
 E.g -> pen,book,laptop,bottle 
 
 No object in entire World is useless.Every object is in constant interaction with others objects.No object is perfectly isolated.
 E.g -> laptop-charger
 
 Each object belongs to a particular type which is known as class although their type class does'nt exists in real world . But object of this 
 do exist in real world. Each object has something , every object does something. What all object has is known as properties, attribute, state. what all does 
 is known as behaviour of object or action performed by an object.
 a.Data type / data member
 b.method /  member function
 
 TO create an object in java, the JVM must be invoked. This is done with the help of new keyword, such object which we want to use in future or we wanr to use
 multiple times, must be assigned to a reference. However if we want to create an object which we would use only once. For such object we don't need to provide 
 any reference. This object for which no reference is assigned are also known as anonymous object.
 
 
 7.Why does a computer or memory devices understand only zeroes and ones?
 
 ->Computers use zeroes and ones (binary) because their fundamental components, like transistors, work as simple electrical switches that are either 
 ON (1) or OFF (0), representing the presence or absence of voltage; this binary system is the most reliable and efficient way to represent data and
 instructions at the hardware level, making complex tasks possible through combinations of these two states. 
 
 
A variable is a name assigned for a memory location inorder to efficiently store or retrieve data. 

Data type - mechanism provided in programming languag which helps in converting real world data to binary form.

Java inbuilt data type
1.byte - 8 bit
2.short - 2 byte
3.long - 8 byte
4.int  - 4 byte
5.float - 4 byte
6.char  - 2 byte
7.boolean - 1 byte


8. Why does Java provides us with 4 different data types to store real world data? 
-> If we try to exceed the maximum range of a data type , we may encounter an overflow error and if we try to store value less than minimum range of a data type,
 we encounter an underflow error. Java provides four different primitive data types for storing whole numbers (byte, short, int, and long) and two for fractional 
 (floating-point) numbers (float and double) to allow programmers to optimize memory usage and performance based on the specific range and precision requirements
  of the data.
  
  
9. How are integers stored in memory?
-> Integers are converted into binary form using base 2 format.


TYPE CASTING
Type casting refers to the process of storing one data type into variable of another data type.

types:
1.implicit - process of storing a value of smaller data types into  variable of bigger data type. Such conversions are internal , automatically performed by 
the compiler. Hence this process is also known as implicit type casting or type conversion.

2.explicit - when we try to store the value of bigger data type into a variable of smaller data types. such conversions are not allowed by the compiler 
automatically. Hence we as programmers must externally instruct the compiler to perform the conversion. This type of conversion is also known as explicit type 
casting. The major drawback of explicit type casting is that there might be loss in accuracy of data.
 
 Type casting Chart
 byte -> short -> int  ->  float -> double
                  ^   \     /
                  |     long  
                  char   
                          
                       
10. why do we need to add a suffix f and l for storing values inside float variable & long variable?
 
 
 *  Whenever there is an expression involving multiple data type , the result will always have biggest data type.
E.g -> double r = 5 + 10.5 + 10.5f


Primitive Data type & their default values
a.byte - 0
b.short -0
c.int   -0
d.long  -0l
e.float -0.0f
f.double -0.0
g.char  - \u0000
h.boolean - false

11. Is Java a pure object oriented programming language?
-> Java is not pure object oriented because of its supports the primitive data type.


Segment of JRE

1.code segment
2.static segment
3.stack segment
4.Heap segment

ARRAYS

-> if we want to store data in java , we can use the following approaches:
a. variable approach
b. Array approach

If we want to store data in java , we can use the variable approach but if we have to store data in large amount the variable approach is not efficient.
In such cases we should go for arrays approach. Arrays are data structures which can be used to store similar type of data. In java , Arrays are treated as objects and 
hence they alloted memory on the heap segment. 

Types of ARRAY
a.2D Jagged Arrays
b.3D Jagged Arrays 

 
Limitation of Array 

1.Homogeneous data type
2.Static size declaration
3.Continuous memory allocation

practice Questions

1.ArmStrong number. - done
2.Array sort - bubble , insertion, selection - done.
3.Distinct Array.
4.Each character count.
5.fibonacci series -  done
6.frequency in string.
7.method overloading
8.minimum - maximum
9.missing number
10.palindrome in sentences
11.kite pattern
12.Hollow triangle pattern
13.prime numbers - done
14.remove duplicates
15.remove word
16.reverse array - done
17.reverse integer
18.palindrome integer
19.Rotational Array
20.palindrome in string

String 
Sequence of character , refers to a series of characters enclosed within double quotes. String can also be treated as object in java. String can also be 
treated as array of character.

Types of String 
a.mutable - which can be modified even after creation. we can create mutable string by using string buffer or string builder class.
e.g -> StringBuilder,StringBuffer

b.immutable - such string which cannot be modified after creation. 
e.g ->String 

Different ways to compare two Strings
1.==
2. equals()
3.equalIgnoreCase()
4. compareTo


*when we concate two string using concate method , the resuting string will get memory on non-constant pool, + operator can also be used to concate two strings.
 we use  the "+" operator along with string references , the resultant string will get memory on the non-constant code. However if we use plus operator along with raw string/data 
 the resultant string will get memory on the constant port. 


The intern method takes  a copy of the string present on the non-constant pool and move it to the constant pool.

CompareTo - compares two string character by character. It would return positive value if the first string is greater, it is going to return a negative value
if the second string is greater, it will return zero if both the strings are equal . It compares character based on their unicode value;

Inbuilt Method in String


Initial capacity of stringBuffer and StringBuilder is 16 , however if we exceed this capacity ,the striingBuffer or StringBuiulder will increase its capacity by
 using the formula - > new capacity = old capacity * 2 +2;
 Although the default initial capacity of a StringBuffer and StringBuilder is 16 we as a programmer can define(set) our own initial capacity.  

Difference between String Buffer and String Builder
String builder is not a thread safe class.


Methods / Function
-Group of Statements to perform specific tasks.

syntax of method

return_type name(parameter){
//set of statements to perform a specific tasks
}

Types of method
a. no input/no output
b.no input/ output
c.input/no output
d.input/ output

Flow of java Program
As soon as method is called in java, its activation record is created on the stack segment.Activation record refers to a chunk of memory allocated on the 
stack segment for the execution of a method. Activation record is also known as stack frame. All the variable which are created inside the body of a method are 
allocated memory on the activation record of particular method. As soon as control reaches the end of the method, it returns to where it came from.
As soon as control exits a method , its activation record gets deleted. When an activation record is deleted , all the variable present on that activation record 
are also deleted. On the heap segment if there are such object to whom no one is refering to , this objects are also known as anonymous, orphan or garbage object.
Such objects will be collected by the garbage collector thread. 
In the above programs , the add method does not accept any value and does not return any value from caller of method , hence it is called no input- no output.


Instance variable vs local variable
1. Instance variable are defined inside the class but outside the method of class , local variables are defined inside a method of class.
2.Instance variable are alloted memory when object is created, local variable are assigned the memory when the method is called.
3.Instance variable are alloted memory inside the object on the heap segment, local variable are assigned on the activation record of the specific method of the 
stack segment.
4.Instance variable are deleted when the object is deleted , local variables are deleted when control exits the method and respective activation record is deleted.

Printing a reference variable
Method which returns a reference variable

Method Overloading

In the previous program , all the methods are performing same task of addition, however while calling this method one must remember the specific method name
based on there requirement . The process of remembering so many names can be hectic , to avoid this problem in java, Java uses the concept of method overloading.
Method overloading is a concept in which multiple methods of the same class have the same name but vary in their signature. The biggest advantage of method overloading
 is that using a same method name , we can perform different operation.Method Overloading clearly eases the usability of code. 
 Method Overloading is also known as compile time polymorphism. This is because during the compile time only, it is decided which method has to be called.
 Since multiple methods are having the same name and ambiguity problem arises , to overcome this problem the compiler uses the following rules.
 1. the compiler is going to match the number of arguements. 
 2.if there are multiple methods with same name and same number of arguements, the compiler will now match the data types of arguements.
 3.If even after following the above two rule, if confusion is still there, now compiler will compare the order of data type
 
 If Method overloading has to exists , one or more of the above rules must be satisfied. It is also known as virtual or false polymorphism.
 
 For true polymorphism to exists , one isto many relationship should exists. But in method overloading , one isto many relationship does not exists. In the above 
 example , it appears as single  add method is doing multiple tasks but in reality multiple add methods are doing one tasks each. It is an examle of false polymorphism and 
 not true polymorphism. 
 
 1.Explore the concept of type promotion
 2.Can we overload main method?


Encapsulation - is a paradigm of object oriented programming system which enables us to provide security to the important dat member of a class. In encapsulation 
for providing security to the important data member, we declare the data members as private . The private member are accessible from within the same class,private
prevents complete access but encapsulation does not prevent complete access rather it provides control access. Control access is provided using public setter and
public getter. This setter and getter method must contain validation code in order to provide controlled access. Since setter and getter are public, they can be 
accessed from even outside the class. Also since this setter and getter method are present within the same class as the private member they can access the private 
members. 


Constructor 

What is Shadowing problem?
According to industry standard, inside a setter method the name of a local variable must be same as the name of instance variable but when we do 
this modification of values, it is not reflected in the instance variable. This is because the JVM is not able to differentiate between the local 
variable and the instance variable. As a result all the modification are basically happening on the local variable themselves. It appears that 
the local variables are shadowing the instance variable and hence the above problem is also knows as Shadowing problem. 

Object Class
 








 



 

 
 


